# ISTQB FAQs Certified Tester Foundation Level (CTFL)
## What is the ISTQB Certified Tester Foundation Level (CTFL)?
The ISTQB CTFL is a credential that establishes base knowledge of software testing. The Foundation Level is the first tier and prerequisite to the three-tiered ISTQB certification scheme — followed by the advanced and expert levels. This first tier is made up of six chapters, specifying about 17 hours of course material. The contents of the ISTQB CTFL course will help you gain skills in the fundamentals of testing, testing throughout the software development lifecycle, static testing, test techniques, test management, and tool support for testing. To become Foundation Level certified, you will need to take and pass the 40 question Foundation exam module (earning a 65% mark or higher). In addition, obtaining your CTFL certification can help you improve your mobile or desktop applications' functionality, useability, and performance.
## For what careers is the ISTQB Certified Tester Foundation Level (CTFL) important?
ISTQB CTFL is an entry-level certificate applicable to career paths in software testing and valuable in many industries. Examples of job titles for software testers are as follows: testers, test analysts, test engineers, test consultants, test managers, user acceptance testers, and software developers. In addition, the ISTQB foundation level is appropriate for individuals needing basic software test understanding, such as project managers, quality managers, software development managers, business analysts, IT directors, and management consultants. ISTQB modules introduce three focus streams: Core, Agile, and Specialist. The latter of the focus streams touches on career-specific learning areas.
## What should I know before pursuing the ISTQB Certified Tester Foundation Level (CTFL)?
The CTFL certification is a prerequisite to all other ISTQB certifications. If you are interested in becoming ISTQB certified for something different than the CTFL, you must first pass the CTFL certification exam. Before taking on the Foundational Level module, it is good to have some technical background in software development, but not required. Similarly, although the CTFL is entry-level, ISTQB recommends six months of practical testing experience, but again, not required. The course syllabus covers the fundamentals of software testing to get you up-to-speed on modern software testing practices. As for preparation, a tip from experienced programmers is to familiarize yourself with the ISTQB terminology before taking the exam. A solid understanding of the vocabulary used by the world’s leading software testing certifiers will help you when taking their exam. Take note that as of Oct. 2021, the ISTQB Foundation Level exam costs $250 USD to take.
